# ODP V3.2.11

## V3.2.11 BP4 hotfix1

### Version information

* Release date: October 9, 2023

* Version: V3.2.11 BP4 hotfix1

* RPM version: obproxy-3.2.11.0-20231009180400

### Bug fixes

* Fixed the issue where the OBServer node is added to the blocklist by mistake because the IP address of the OBServer node accessed by ODP during keepalive detection does not match the cluster name used.

* Fixed the issue where an exception occurs during the update of the configuration table when global settings are configured by specifying the `cluster_name` parameter.

* Fixed the issue that a connection to the OBServer node through ODP disconnects when the PREPARE statement is executed twice in the same session.

* Fixed the issue that the execution of the `SHOW PROXYSESSION STAT id` statement fails.

* Fixed the issue that the stack returned by `lbt()` under the security compilation option is incorrect.

* Fixed the issue that IP address-based routing specified in global configurations does not take effect.

* Fixed the issue where ODP exits due to a PS memory leak.

* Fixed the issue where the connection to the binlog service fails occasionally after the high availability feature is enabled for ODP.

* Fixed the issue in determining the disaster recovery check criteria for the binlog service.

## V3.2.11 BP4

### Version information

* Release date: August 28, 2023

* Version: V3.2.11 BP4

* RPM version: obproxy-3.2.11.0-20230828095237

### Bug fixes

* Fixed the issue where disconnection occurs during running.

* Fixed the issue that after `enable_ldg` is enabled in an advanced RISC machine (ARM) environment, an ODP core dump occurs while simulating a network failure on a node by using iptables.

## V3.2.11 BP3

### Version information

* Release date: August 11, 2023

* Version: V3.2.11 BP3

* RPM version: obproxy-3.2.11.0-20230811141951

### Bug fixes

* Fixed the issue where the process exits during a hot upgrade.

* Fixed the issue where the CPU utilization surges upon a periodic configuration update by ODP.

* Fixed the issue that packets returned by the binlog dump request cannot be identified.

* Fixed the issue that the parsing module of ODP may cause memory leaks.

## V3.2.11 BP2

### Version information

* Release date: April 19, 2023

* Version: V3.2.11 BP2

* RPM version: obproxy-3.2.11.0-20230419145302

### Bug fixes

Fixed the issue that in some scenarios, after the connection to the OBServer node is disconnected because the connection has been idle for a long period, a core dump occurs on the ODP process when it receives a new request.

## V3.2.11 BP1

### Version information

* Release date: April 06, 2023

* Version: V3.2.11 BP1

* RPM version: obproxy-3.2.11.0-20230406144131

### Overview

The `obproxy_force_parallel_query_dop` parameter is added for modifying the degree of parallelism (DOP) of queries in OceanBase Database.

## V3.2.11

### Version information

* Release date: April 3, 2023

* Version: V3.2.11

* RPM version: obproxy-3.2.11.0-20230403112629

### Overview

* ODP can obtain the client IP addresses and allowlist settings across virtual private clouds (VPCs) by using the OceanBase 2.0 protocol.

* IP address-based routing is supported.

* Parsing of hexadecimal data is supported.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
     <h4>Notice</h4>
     <p>Text binary data will double the data length of the entire request. If ODP fails to parse the information required for partition calculation when the request buffer exceeds the size limit, which is 4,096 KB by default, ODP will continue with random routing. In this case, you can increase the size of the request buffer or allow random routing for these requests. </p>
  </main>

* The subpartition keyword is supported.

* When ODP actively disconnects from the client, an error packet is sent to the client.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed the issue of core dump related to prepared statements.

* Fixed the issue that internal connections are hung.

*

* Fixed the issue that disconnection occurs when case sensitivity is enabled for prepared statements.
