# Parameter description

## Get configuration parameters

Log on to OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) with the `root@proxysys` account and run the following command to obtain the ODP configurations:

```sql
SHOW proxyconfig [LIKE '%var_name%'];
```

## Parameters

ODP allows you to configure parameters as needed. This section describes the parameters that you may need to configure.

ODP parameters are divided into the following four categories:

* Dynamically modifiable parameters

   These parameters take effect immediately after they are modified. For more information, see [Dynamically modifiable parameters](2.parameters-that-can-be-dynamically-modified.md).

* Parameters that are not dynamically modifiable

   These parameters take effect after you restart ODP. For more information, see [Parameters that are not dynamically modifiable](3.parameters-that-cannot-be-dynamically-modified.md).

* Parameters that are invisible to common users

   Parameters for internal use in ODP and configurations inherited from the general configuration are invisible to common users. Only users with special privileges can modify these parameters by running internal commands. For more information, see [Internal and inherited parameters](4.parameters-that-do-not-need-to-be-modified.md).

* In-memory parameters

   Modifications to these parameters take effect only once. For more information, see [In-memory parameters](5.memory-level-parameters.md).

> **Notice**
>
> For all parameters of the time type (which may be in the unit of μs, ms, s, m, h, or d and is case insensitive and with the default unit of s) and capacity type (which may be in the unit of B, byte, KB, K, MB, M, GB, G, TB, T, PB, or P and is case insensitive and with the default unit of MB) within a valid value range of [0,xxx], if you set the value to a negative number when you update the configuration, the query result returned for the `show proxyconfig` command in the ODP or a query on the `ob_all_proxy_config` table is also a negative number. However, the ODP takes the value as `0`.

## Modify configuration parameters

You modify the ODP configurations in either of the following ways:

* Run the following command to modify the configuration parameters when ODP is started:

   ```bash
   -o <var_name> = <var_value>
   ```

* When ODP is running, log on to ODP with the `root@proxysys` account and run the following command:

   ```sql
   ALTER proxyconfig SET <var_name> = <var_value>
   ```
