# High availability of ODP services

High availability of ODP services means that ODP can continuously provide services to reduce the impact of faults on the proxy service. However, the service availability is subject to the following factors:

* Factor 1: Whether the server on which ODP is deployed is normal, for example, whether the server can properly communicate with other servers , and whether the server is down.

* Factor 2: Whether the ODP process runs stably and provides services normally, and whether the process can be pulled up in time after being accidentally killed.

* Factor 3: Whether the third-party modules on which ODP depends, such as OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) and OBServers, properly provide services, for example, whether OCP can properly provide HTTP services.

The following sections describe the high availability of ODP services in consideration of these three factors.

## Deployment server exceptions

For more information about the deployment modes of ODP, see [Deployment modes](../2.install/3.deploy.md). This section describes the high availability of ODP services by analyzing server failures in application-side deployment and independent deployment. The case with OBServer-side deployment is similar to the case with independent deployment.

When ODP is deployed on the application side, ODP and business software are deployed on the same server. When an issue occurs on the server, both the software and ODP are affected. To achieve high availability for both the business layer and ODP, you can take the following measures:

* Fault detection: Use a third-party system to detect, monitor, and inspect business service exceptions. After the self-healing process is triggered, site reliability engineers (SREs) can intervene in exception handling.

* Elastic scaling: Evaluate the capacity based on the request volume and determine whether elastic scaling is required. If scale-out is required, add new servers in a timely manner and deploy software programs and ODP on the new servers to provide services. The scale-out usually takes little time because the business software and the ODP process are stateless.

* Traffic switchover: Isolate the faulty server and switch its traffic to another healthy node to ensure proper execution of requests.

By using the preceding measures, ODP services can be recovered in a timely manner. A shorter recovery time means higher availability of the ODP service.

Unlike in the application-side deployment mode, in independent deployment mode, ODP is deployed on an independent server, and a load balancing (LB) module is also deployed before ODP. In this deployment mode, the high availability of ODP services is decoupled from the high availability of business software. Multiple ODPs are deployed in redundancy to provide services. The LB module checks the health of ODP, detects ODP faults in time, and blacklists faulty ODP servers so that SQL statements are not forwarded to faulty servers. After the faulty ODP servers are blacklisted, the load on the available ODP servers increases. You can add new ODP servers to balance the load.

It can be learned, through the analysis of the application-side deployment mode and the independent deployment mode, availability issues are more likely to occur in the independent deployment mode. This is mainly because the link is longer. For example, business software and ODP unavailability due to network failure barely occurs in the application-side deployment mode because the business software and ODP can still communicate locally, but is highly likely to occur in the independent deployment mode.

## ODP process exceptions

In addition to server failures, ODP process exceptions also have a significant impact on service availability. ODP process exceptions occur for many reasons, for example, process core dump caused by program bugs, out-of-memory (OOM) exceptions caused by excessive memory usage, and accidental killing of processes by O&M operations. While the causes may vary, the final results are the same: The service port fails to provide services.

You can solve the issue by using the `obproxyd.sh` script. Run the `nc` command to access the listened-to port of ODP. If the TCP connection is established, the ODP process exists. If the process does not exist, the `obproxyd.sh` script restarts the ODP process. The ODP process can be started and provide services in about 1s.

`obproxyd.sh` can only restore services as far as possible. However, if a core dump is generated due to program bugs, this issue cannot be resolved by restarting the ODP process. In this case, you can follow the server exception troubleshooting process, so that the LB component will handle the exception. For some bugs that rarely occur, a restart can recover services in a timely manner, causing little impact on the business.

## OCP exceptions

Even if ODP is operating properly, ODP cannot properly provide services if a third-party module that the ODP depends on is abnormal. This section describes OCP exceptions.

OCP provides centralized configuration services for ODP and stores some key configuration information, such as the mapping between a cluster name and a cluster RS list, which contains a list of servers on which RootService resides. After ODP pulls the RS list information from OCP, ODP saves the information in the `obproxy_rslist_info.json` file in the local `etc` directory.

If OCP is unavailable, ODP can use the locally cached RS list file to provide services. To check whether OCP is available, you can use the `curl` command to access the URL of OCP. The configuration item `ignore_local_config` specifies whether to use cached files. The default value is `true`, which indicates that local cached files are not used.

The use of local cached files can solve the issue that some clusters cannot be accessed upon OCP exceptions. However, this also has the following disadvantages:

* Only the RS list information of accessed clusters is stored in the cache. Services remain unavailable for a cluster that has not been accessed.

* The cached information is time-sensitive and becomes invalid if the RS list changes.

Therefore, OCP itself must have high availability design and can recover from faults in time to ensure service continuity.

In general, the LB component and the `obproxyd.sh` script can handle process exceptions and machine exceptions in a timely manner. ODP has been significantly optimized in terms of the program startup process, and can complete initialization and configuration loading and start to provide external services within 1s.

Dependency on external modules has been minimized for ODP. However, it is impossible for ODP to avoid using OCP. Therefore, ODP uses a local cache to reduce dependency on OCP and maximize service availability.
