# ODP Community Edition V4.2.0

## V4.2.0

### Version information

* Release date: July 2, 2023

* Version: V4.2.0

### Overview

* Automatic session synchronization verification is supported.

* Access to a cluster by using its alias is supported.

* The GB18030 2022 character set is supported.

* The Show Trace feature is supported. For more information, see [Show Trace](../../../900.o-m-guide/300.show-trace.md).

* A latency threshold is supported. For more information, see [Follower latency threshold](../../../600.data-routing/600.follower-latency-threshold.md).

* Parsing of hexadecimal data is supported.

* The subpartition keyword is supported.

* The `obproxy_force_parallel_query_dop` parameter is added for modifying the degree of parallelism (DOP) of queries in OceanBase Database.

* The security compilation option is supported.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed the issue where the cluster is disconnected when the `PREPARE stmt1 FROM @A` statement is executed.

* Fixed the issue that the behavior in random routing is not as expected.

* Fixed the issue of request routing where only the partitioning key is specified for a subpartitioned table in the SQL request.

* Fixed the issue of session information synchronization in the case of error packets.

* Fixed the issue where internal SQL statements are not routed based on the specified IP addresses.

* Fixed the issue where disconnection occurs when an SQL statement is executed after xa_start hold.

* Fixed the issue where connection establishment fails if only last_insert_id is modified.

* Fixed the issue where performance jitter occurs in business SQL statements when CPU resources are exhausted due to configuration changes.

* Fixed the issue that disconnection occurs when the `consume size` is 0.

* Fixed the issue that a disconnection occurs due to excessively long user variables in a PL statement.

* Fixed the issue where an error is expected but the operation succeeds when a tenant-level parameter is deleted.

* Fixed the issue that the parsing module of ODP may cause memory leaks.

* Fixed the issue where you cannot configure multiple values when you update a parameter.

* Fixed the issue where the allowlist contains invalid CIRR blocks.

* Fixed the issue where the operation of inserting data into a table is hung when the utf16 character set is used.

* Fixed the issue that column names in a partition expression cannot contain backticks (`) in partition routing.

* Fixed the issue of core dump related to prepared statements.

* Fixed the issue that internal connections are hung.

*

* Fixed the issue that disconnection occurs when case sensitivity is enabled for prepared statements.

* Fixed the issue that in some scenarios, after the connection to the OBServer node is disconnected because the connection has been idle for a long period, a core dump occurs on the ODP process when it receives a new request.
