# Routing strategies

## Overview

Routing strategies help ODP select a suitable replica for SQL statements. The multiple replicas can be the multiple replicas selected during follower routing or during tenant server routing for statements such as `select 1 from dual`.

ODP implements three types of routing strategies:

* Primary zone-based routing, which takes the top priority

* LDC-based routing, which takes the second priority

* Random routing, which takes the third priority

### Primary zone-based routing

ODP sends an SQL request preferentially to the server where the primary zone is located. The zone where the leader is located is called the primary zone. Adopt this routing strategy in the following scenarios:

1. In the high-performance deployment architecture commonly used for OceanBase Database, the primary zone of a tenant is deployed on one server. This mechanism reduces network overheads for a distributed system.

2. During leader routing, ODP may fail to get the table name or calculate the partition ID. In this case, ODP can adopt this routing strategy to send the requests to the leader as far as possible.

### LDC-based routing

LDC-based routing is a routing strategy based on location information, which includes the following attributes:

* IDC: indicates a logical data center.

* Region: indicates a city.

Both ODP and OBServers can set the LDC information. Based on the LDC information, ODP can determine the location relationship with an OBServer. After the LDC information is specified, ODP adopts LDC-based routing by default.

#### LDC settings for an OBServer

You can set the Region or IDC attribute for each zone of an OBServer. The Region attribute is usually set to the city name, which is case-sensitive. The IDC attribute specifies the data center where the zone is located. Generally, the data center name in lowercase is specified for the IDC attribute. The SQL statement is as follows:

```sql
alter system modify zone "z1" set region = "SHANGHAI";
alter system modify zone "z1" set idc = "zue";
```

Return result:

```sql
mysql> select * from DBA_OB_ZONES;
+-------+----------------------------+----------------------------+--------+-----+----------------+-----------+
| ZONE  | CREATE_TIME                | MODIFY_TIME                | STATUS | IDC | REGION         | TYPE      |
+-------+----------------------------+----------------------------+--------+-----+----------------+-----------+
| z1    | 2022-10-31 11:48:29.040552 | 2022-10-31 11:48:29.041609 | ACTIVE | zue | SHANGHAI       | ReadWrite |
+-------+----------------------------+----------------------------+--------+-----+----------------+-----------+
| z2    | 2022-10-31 11:48:29.040552 | 2022-10-31 11:48:29.041609 | ACTIVE | zue | SHANGHAI       | ReadWrite |
+-------+----------------------------+----------------------------+--------+-----+----------------+-----------+
| z3    | 2022-10-31 11:48:29.040552 | 2022-10-31 11:48:29.041609 | ACTIVE | ztg | HANGZHOU       | ReadOnly  |
+-------+----------------------------+----------------------------+--------+-----+----------------+-----------+
3 rows in set
```

#### LDC settings for ODP

The LDC information is specified for ODP by using configuration parameters or startup parameters. First, set the startup parameters by using the `-i` option. Then, execute the SQL statement `alter proxyconfig set proxy_idc_name='IDC name';`.

Run the internal command `show proxyinfo idc` of ODP to check the LDC configuration for ODP.

```sql
mysql> show proxyinfo idc;
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------+--------------------+
| global_idc_name | cluster_name | match_type      | regions_name    | same_idc                                               | same_region | other_region       |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------+--------------------+
| zue             | obcluster    | MATCHED_BY_NONE | []              | [[0]"z1", [1]"z1", [2]"z2", [3]"z2", [4]"z3", [5]"z3"] | []          | []                 |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------+--------------------+
| zue             | obcluster    | MATCHED_BY_IDC  | [[0]"SHANGHAI"] | [[0]"z1", [1]"z1", [2]"z2", [3]"z2"]                   | []          | [[0]"z3", [1]"z3"] |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------+--------------------+
| zue             | obcluster    | MATCHED_BY_IDC  | [[0]"SHANGHAI"] | [[0]"z1", [1]"z1", [2]"z2", [3]"z2"]                   | []          | [[0]"z3", [1]"z3"] |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------+--------------------+
3 rows in set
```

> **Note**
>
> * If OceanBase Database is deployed in only one IDC, the LDC information is of little use, because the latency among servers in the same IDC is the same by default. If you still want to adopt the LDC-based routing strategy in this case, plan the LDC architecture, and set the LDC attributes for both the OBServer and ODP. If OceanBase Database is deployed across multiple IDCs, you can plan the LDCs based on the IDCs and city.
>
> * In some special cases, you can specify LDC settings by using the trick method to enable LDC-based routing. However, we do not recommend you do that.

### Random routing

ODP adopts the random routing strategy when multiple replicas are still available for selection after the primary zone-based routing and LDC-based routing. If primary zone-based routing is not enabled or LDC-based routing is not configured, ODP directly uses random routing.

## Configure and view routing strategies

Data routing is complex because different routing strategies are available. By default, ODP first perform leader routing and follower routing, and performs tenant server routing if no replica is available. If only one replica is selected, ODP directly routes the data to the replica. Otherwise, ODP routes the data based on routing strategies.

Primary zone-based routing and LDC-based routing are controlled by the following parameters:

* `enable_primary_zone`: specifies whether to use the primary zone-based routing strategy. The value `true` indicates to use primary zone-based routing.

* `proxy_idc_name`: specifies the name of the IDC. LDC-based routing is used when this parameter is specified.

If you want to use routing strategies other than the existing ones, you can modify the `proxy_route_policy` parameter to set the new strategy with the top priority. The following two routing strategies are frequently used, which are both related to weak reading.

* `FOLLOWER_FIRST`: Requests are first routed to a follower, and are routed to the leader only when no follower is available.

* `FOLLOWER_ONLY`: Requests are routed only to a follower. If no follower is available, an error is returned.

You can query the route_type field in ODP logs for the routing strategies used by ODP. For example, `ROUTE_TYPE_LEADER` indicates that leader routing is used. `ROUTE_TYPE_NONPARTITION_UNMERGE_LOCAL` indicates a more complex situation. The keywords are described as follows:

* `PARTITON`: indicates to select a server with replica data, regardless of the replica type.

* `NONPARTITION`: indicates to select a tenant server regardless of the table data distribution.

* `FOLLOWER`: indicates to send the request to a follower.

* `LEADER`: indicates to send the request to the leader.

* `UNMERGE`: indicates to send the request to a server not in the progress of major compaction.

* `MERGE`: indicates to send the request to a server in the progress of major compaction.

* `LOCAL`: indicates to send the request to a server in the same IDC.

* `REMOTE`: indicates to send the request to a server in a different IDC in the same city.

* `REGION`: indicates to send the request to a server in another city.

* `READONLY`: indicates to send the request to a server in a READONLY zone.

* `READWRITE`: indicates to send the request to a server in a READWRITE zone.

* `DUP`: indicates to send the request to a server where the replicated table is located.
