# ODP Enterprise Edition V4.0.0

## V4.0.0 BP2

### Version information

* Release date: January 30, 2023

* Version: V4.0.0 BP2

* RPM version: obproxy-4.0.0-20230130103527

### Overview

* You can set a different proxyro password for different OceanBase clusters.

* The rich client feature is supported.

## V4.0.0 BP1

### Version information

* Release date: December 23, 2022

* Version: V4.0.0 BP1

* RPM version: obproxy-4.0.0-20221223144641

### Overview

The `enable_ob_protocol_v2_with_client` parameter is added for enabling or disabling the OceanBase 2.0 protocol between OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) and the client.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed the issue that a core dump occurs when you access a partitioned table by carrying the row ID.

* Fixed the issue where no information is returned after a prepared statement is deleted when the OceanBase 2.0 protocol is enabled between the client and ODP.

* Fixed the issue where the error "requestId mismatch" is returned if an SQL statement is executed after a PREPARE statement is executed in the case of an exception, when the OceanBase 2.0 protocol is enabled between the client and ODP.

* Fixed the issue that the client is hung because the error packet returned for an internal SQL statement is in an incorrect format.

* Fixed the issue where disconnection occurs if the error 4016 is returned when the OceanBase 2.0 protocol is enabled.

* Fixed the issue that ODP is disconnected due to connection ID mismatch.

* Fixed the issue that disconnection occurs after the compression protocol is enabled.

* Fixed the issue of core dump caused by the abnormal `to_timestamp` parameter.

## V4.0.0

### Version information

* Release date: November 4, 2022

* Version: V4.0.0

* RPM version: obproxy-4.0.0-20221103165243

### Overview

* ODP V4.0.0 is released to match OceanBase Database V4.0. New features such as internal tables and row IDs are supported.

* The end-to-end diagnostics feature is supported.

* By default, the OceanBase 2.0 protocol is enabled between ODP and OceanBase Database.
