# Deploy ODP by using the CLI

OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) can forward data access requests of users to correct OBServers. The results are returned to the clients by using ODP. This topic describes how to install ODP by using the ODP RPM Package Manager (RPM) package.

You can also deploy ODP in the following ways:

* Deploy ODP by using OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP). For more information, see [Deploy ODP by using OCP](80.install-by-ocp.md).

* Deploy ODP by using OceanBase Deployer (OBD). For more information, see [Deploy ODP by using OBD](50.install-by-obd.md).

> **Notice**
>
> * After you deploy ODP on a server, ODP provides the proxy service of OceanBase Database by exposing a socket in the format of `IP address:Port number`. You can access OceanBase Database by using the socket in the same way you access MySQL databases. We recommend that you deploy ODP on an OBServer.
>
> * We recommend that you deploy only one ODP on a server and use Port 2883. If you deploy multiple ODPs on the same server, you need to specify different ports and configuration file paths for differentiation. You can set the port number to 3306, 1521, or other numbers.
>
> * The sample IP addresses in this topic are desensitized. You must specify the actual IP addresses of your servers.

## Environment preparations

* Platform: x86_64 or ARM

* Operating system: Linux Red Hat ((x86_64) of version 5, 6, 7, or later

* CPU: ODP occupies about 70% of the resources of a CPU core during operation.

* Memory: ODP occupies about 100 MB of memory during operation.

* Disk space: The disk space is determined by your data size. We recommend that you use a disk that has 10 GB or more of space.

* OceanBase cluster: For more information, see [Deploy an OceanBase cluster](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oceanbase-database-en-10000000000829255).

## Install ODP

1. Run the following command as the root user to add the write privilege on the `sudoers` file:

   ```bash
   # Add the write privilege on the sudoers file.
   chmod u+w /etc/sudoers
   echo 'admin ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL' >> /etc/sudoers

   # Revoke the write privilege on the sudoers file.
   chmod u-w /etc/sudoers
   ```

2. Run the following command to install the ODP RPM package:

   ```bash
   -bash-4.2$ cd $rpm_dir
   -bash-4.2$ sudo rpm -ivh $rpm_name
   ```

   `$rpm_dir` specifies the directory in which the RPM package is stored. `$rpm_name` specifies the name of the RPM package.

   > **Note**
   >
   > * You can obtain the latest RPM package for ODP from OceanBase Technical Support.
   >
   > * ODP is installed in the `/opt/taobao/install` directory.

   Example:

   ```bash
   -bash-4.2$ sudo rpm -ivh obproxy-4.0.0-20221103165243.el7.x86_64.rpm
   Preparing...                          ################################# [100%]
   Updating / installing...
      1:obproxy-4.0.0-20221103165243.el7 ################################# [100%]
   ```

3. (Optional) Create soft links to ODP:

   A soft link to ODP can hide the version information, facilitating subsequent operations.

   ODP is installed in the `/opt/taobao/install` directory. The home directory of the ODP process is `/opt/taobao/install/obproxy`, which is a soft link that points to the directory of ODP of the corresponding version.

   ```bash
   -bash-4.2$ cd /opt/taobao/install
   -bash-4.2$ sudo ln -s obproxy-4.0.0 obproxy
   -bash-4.2$ ll
   total 8
   drwxr-xr-x 9 root  root  4096 Sep 26 15:24 ajdk-8.3.6-b129
   lrwxrwxrwx 1 root  root    13 Nov 14 12:03 obproxy -> obproxy-4.0.0
   drwxr-xr-x 4 admin admin 4096 Nov 14 11:59 obproxy-4.0.0

   # Change the owner and group of the ODP process to admin.
   -bash-4.2$ sudo chown -R admin:admin obproxy
   -bash-4.2$ ll
   total 8
   drwxr-xr-x 9 root  root  4096 Sep 26 15:24 ajdk-8.3.6-b129
   lrwxrwxrwx 1 admin admin   13 Nov 14 12:03 obproxy -> obproxy-4.0.0
   drwxr-xr-x 4 admin admin 4096 Nov 14 11:59 obproxy-4.0.0
   ```

## Initialize ODP

ODP needs to communicate with the backend OBServer node. Therefore, you must create the `proxyro` user and specify the password for ODP in the sys tenant of the OceanBase cluster. If you start ODP later, you can specify the username and password of the proxyro user in the startup parameters.

> **Note**
>
> ODP uses the proxyro user to access the OceanBase cluster. One proxyro user can be used for accessing one OceanBase cluster.

To check whether a proxyro user exists in the cluster, perform the following steps:

1. Log on to the cluster by creating an IP address-based direct connection.

   ```bash
   obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uroot@sys -P2881 -p
   ```

2. Run the following command to query the users in the sys tenant:

   ```sql
   obclient> select user,password from mysql.user;
   ```

   If the output shows that a proxyro user already exists, you can directly [start ODP](#Start%20ODP). If the output shows that no proxyro user exists, run the command to create one.

3. Create a proxyro user.

   Example:

   ```sql
   $ obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uroot@sys -P2881 -p -c -A

   obclient> CREATE USER proxyro IDENTIFIED BY '******';
   Query OK, 0 rows affected

   obclient> GRANT SELECT ON *.* TO proxyro;
   Query OK, 0 rows affected

   obclient> SHOW GRANTS FOR proxyro;
   +----------------------------------+
   | Grants for proxyro@%             |
   +----------------------------------+
   | GRANT SELECT ON *.* TO 'proxyro' |
   +----------------------------------+
   1 row in set
   ```

## Start ODP

You can use either of the following methods to start an ODP process:

* Specify the `-r` parameter in the startup command to specify the information of the RootServer in the OceanBase cluster.

   This method does not require other configurations, and is usually used in the development and debugging phase.

* Specify the `obproxy_config_server_url` parameter in the startup command to obtain the information of the RootServer in the OceanBase cluster.

   This method requires the `obproxy_config_server_url` parameter, thus relying on the startup of the Config Server. We recommend that you use this method to start an ODP.

> **Notice**
>
> To start the ODP, log on as the admin user and run the startup command in the home directory of the ODP software. The ODP startup fails if you log on as other users or run the startup command in other directories.

### Procedure

1. Log on as the admin user to the server that hosts the ODP to be started.

2. Run the following command in the directory where the ODP is installed to start the ODP.

   > **Note**
   >
   > Before you start the ODP, you can run the `./bin/obproxy -h` command to query the startup parameters of the ODP.

   1. Run the following command to specify the `-r` option in the startup command:

      ```bash
      ./bin/obproxy -p <obproxy_port> -r <'ip:port'> -n <appname> -o -c <cluster_name>
      ```

      Parameters:

      * `-p`: specifies the port number listened to by ODP. The MySQL client uses this port to access OceanBase Database. The parameter is required for the first startup. You do not need to specify this parameter in subsequent startups or upgrades.

      * `-r`: specifies the IP address and port number of the RootServer in the specified OceanBase cluster. The port is the SQL Port of the OBServer, not the RPC Port.

      * `-n`: specifies the application name of the ODP to be started. This parameter is optional.

         You can use the `app_name` parameter to change the application name of the ODP. The default value is `undefined`.

      * `-o`: specifies the hardware or kernel parameter settings. If you do not specify this parameter, the default system configurations are used.

      * `-c`: specifies the OceanBase cluster.

      Example:

      ```bash
      [admin@001 ~]$ ./bin/obproxy -p 2883 -r'10.10.10.1:2881;10.10.10.2:2881;10.10.10.3:2881' -o "observer_sys_password=$sha1_value,obproxy_sys_password=$sha1_value,enable_cluster_checkout=false" -n test -c mycluster
      ```

      > **Notice**
      >
      > * `observer_sys_password` must be the password of the proxyro user of OceanBase Database. `obproxy_sys_password` is the password of the `root@proxysys` account for logging on to the ODP.
      >
      > * Replace the password in `$sha1_value` with the actual password. The password is an SHA1-hashed value rather than the original value. For example, if the password of the proxyro user is `123456`, the `observer_sys_password` parameter must be set to `7c4a8d09ca3762af61e59520943dc26494f8941b`.

   2. Run the following command to specify the `obproxy_config_server_url` parameter in the startup command:

      ```bash
      ./bin/obproxy -p <obproxy_port> -n <appname> -o obproxy_config_server_url='your_config_url' -c <cluster_name>
      ```

      Parameters:

      * `-p`: specifies the port number listened to by the ODP. The MySQL client uses this port to access OceanBase Database. The parameter is required for the first startup. You do not need to specify this parameter in subsequent startups or upgrades.

      * `-n`: specifies the application name.

         You can use the `app_name` parameter to change the application name of the ODP. The default value is `undefined`.

      * `-o`: specifies the hardware or kernel parameter settings. If you do not specify this parameter, the default system configurations are used.

      * `obproxy_config_server_url`: specifies the URL of the config server.

      Example:

      ```bash
      [admin@001 ~]$ ./bin/obproxy -p 2883 -n test -o "obproxy_config_server_url='http://xx.xx.xx.xx:8877/obproxy_config',observer_sys_password=$sha1_value,obproxy_sys_password=$sha1_value" -c mycluster
      ```

3. Run the following command to check whether the ODP process exists:

   ```bash
   [admin@001 ~]$ ps -ef|grep obproxy
   ```

> **Note**
>
> The operation logs of ODP are stored in `/opt/taobao/install/obproxy/log`, namely `/home/admin/logs/obproxy/log`.

## OceanBase Database connection example

When you connect to OceanBase Database through ODP, you must combine the cluster name, instance name, and username. There are four valid formats, with the first two being common.

* `Username@Tenant_name#Cluster_name`
* `Cluster_name:Tenant_name:Username`
* `Cluster_name-Tenant_name-Username`
* `Cluster_name.Tenant_name.Username`

```bash
$ obclient -h10.10.10.1 -uroot@sys#mycluster -P2883 -p -c -A
Enter password:
# Or
$ obclient -h10.10.10.1 -umycluster:sys:root -P2883 -p -c -A
Enter password:
```

## Troubleshooting

Symptom: The following error is returned when the ODP is used to connect to OceanBase Database:

```bash
ERROR 2013 (HY000): Lost connection to MySQL server at 'reading authorization packet', system error: 0
```

Possible causes: The password specified by the `observer_sys_password` parameter in the ODP is inconsistent with the password of the proxyro user in OceanBase Database. The ODP cannot use this user account to communicate with the OBServer.

Solution: Adopt one of the following solutions based on the actual situation:

1. Connect to the OceanBase Database through a direct connection, and change the password of the proxyro user to the one that you set for the `observer_sys_password` parameter when you start the ODP.

   ```bash
   ALTER USER proxyro IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
   ```

2. Log on to the ODP with the `root@proxysys` account and change the password of the `proxyro@sys` user. Then, restart the ODP.

   ```sql
   alter proxyconfig set observer_sys_password = 'password';
   ```

> **Notice**
>
> In the `password` field in the preceding statement, enter the original value of the password instead of the SHA1-hashed value.
