# Use OBD to deploy ODP

This topic describes how to use OceanBase Deployer (OBD) to deploy OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP). Perform the following steps:

1. Prepare the installation environment

2. Choose a suitable version

3. Use OBD to install ODP

4. Perform check after the installation

You can also deploy ODP in the following ways:

* Use OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) to install and deploy ODP. For more information, see [Create an OBProxy cluster](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-ocp-en-10000000000840332).

* Use an RPM package to install and deploy ODP.

## Prepare the installation environment

* Platform: X86_64 or ARM

* Operating system: Red Hat Linux (x86_64) of version 5, 6, 7, or later

* CPU: ODP occupies about 70% of the resources of a CPU core during operation.

* Memory: ODP occupies about 100 MB of memory during operation.

* Disk size: The disk space is determined by your data size. We recommend that you use a disk that has 10 GB or more of space.

* OceanBase cluster: For more information, see [OceanBase deployment overview](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-observer-en-10000000000829655).

## Choose a suitable version

If you install ODP for learning purposes, install the latest version. For a production environment, we recommend that you check the new features and fixed issues of each version.

ODP is now available as an open-source project. You can find the OBProxy project under the open-source OceanBase Database project. Click [Releases](https://github.com/oceanbase/obproxy/releases) to view the details of each version. Each version of ODP has been tested in terms of features , stress handling, and performance, and can be used with guaranteed performance.

## Procedure

### Step 1: Download and install OBD

OBD is the most efficient deployment tool to make ODP ready to work. We recommend that you use OBD to deploy ODP.

Download and install OBD by performing the following steps.  If the server has access to the Internet and allows you to add a third-party YUM repository as the software source, you can run the following command to install OBD from the official software source of OceanBase:

```bash
sudo yum install -y yum-utils
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://mirrors.aliyun.com/oceanbase/OceanBase.repo
sudo yum install -y ob-deploy
source /etc/profile.d/obd.sh
```

If the server does not have access to the Internet, use other server to download the OBD installation package from the [releases](https://github.com/oceanbase/obdeploy/releases) page on GitHub, and then transfer the installation package to the server you are using for installation.

### Step 2: Modify the configuration file

After OBD is installed, you can view the configuration files provided by OBD in the `/usr/obd/example/` directory and select the appropriate configuration file as required.

OBD installs the latest version of ODP by default. If you want to install another version, specify the desired version in the configuration file. You can set the ODP configuration in the configuration file as follows. For more information about the parameters, see [Parameter description](../200.install/200.parameter-description.md).

```yaml
obproxy-ce:
  version: 3.2.3
  # Set dependent components for the component.
  # When the associated configurations are not done, OBD will automatically get these configurations from the dependent components.
  depends:
    - oceanbase-ce
  servers:
    - 10.10.10.1
  global:
    listen_port: 2883 # External port. The default value is 2883.
    prometheus_listen_port: 2884 # The Prometheus port. The default value is 2884.
    home_path: /root/obproxy
    # oceanbase root server list
    # format: ip:mysql_port;ip:mysql_port. When a depends exists, OBD gets this value from the oceanbase-ce of the depends.
    rs_list: 10.10.10.2:2881;10.10.10.3:2881;10.10.10.4:2881
    enable_cluster_checkout: false
    # observer cluster name, consistent with oceanbase-ce's appname. When a depends exists, OBD gets this value from the oceanbase-ce of the depends.
    # cluster_name: obcluster
    skip_proxy_sys_private_check: true
    enable_strict_kernel_release: false
    # obproxy_sys_password: # obproxy sys user password, can be empty. When a depends exists, OBD gets this value from the oceanbase-ce of the depends.
    observer_sys_password: # proxyro user password, consistent with oceanbase-ce's proxyro_password, can be empty. When a depends exists, OBD gets this value
```

> **Notice**
>
> * When you configure the `rs_list` parameter, you must specify the IP address and MySQL port number of the OceanBase cluster accessible to the ODP.
>
> * The value of the `observer_sys_password` parameter must be the same as that of the `proxyro_password` parameter specified when you deployed the OceanBase cluster.

### Step 3: Deploy ODP

If the server has access to the Internet, perform steps 4 and 5 directly. If the server does not have access to the Internet, download the ODP installation package from the [Releases](https://github.com/oceanbase/obproxy/releases) page on GitHub, and then copy the installation package to the local image repository as follows:

1. Run the following command to disable the remote image repository:

   ```bash
   obd mirror disable <mirror repo name>
   ```

   The `mirror repo name` parameter specifies the name of the image repository to be disabled. If you set this parameter to `remote`, all remote image repositories are disabled.

2. Run the following command to copy the ODP installation package to the local image repository:

   ```bash
   obd mirror clone <path> [-f]
   ```

   The `path` parameter specifies the path of the RPM package. The `-f` option indicates `--force`, which is optional and is disabled by default. When this option is enabled, if an image already exists, the image is forcibly overwritten.

3. Run the following command to get the list of RPM packages in the local image repository:

   ```bash
   obd mirror list local
   ```

4. Run the following command to deploy ODP:

   ```bash
   obd cluster deploy <deploy_name> -c <deploy_config_path>
   ```

   In the preceding command, the `deploy_name` parameter specifies the cluster name, which can be understood as the alias of the configuration file. `deploy_config_path` specifies the path of the configuration file.

   > **Note**
   >
   > During online installation, after you run the `obd cluster deploy` command, OBD checks the target server for the ODP installation package. If the package does not exist, OBD automatically obtains the package from the YUM repository.

5. Run the following command to start ODP:

   ```bash
   obd cluster start <deploy_name>
   ```

### Step 4: Perform check after the installation

1. Run the following command to view the deployment result:

   ```bash
   obd cluster display <deploy_name>

   # Example
   [admin@test ~]$ obd cluster display obtest
   Get local repositories and plugins ok
   Open ssh connection ok
   Cluster status check ok
   Connect to observer ok
   Wait for observer init ok
   +----------------------------------------------+
   |                 observer                     |
   +------------+---------+------+-------+--------+
   | ip         | version | port | zone  | status |
   +------------+---------+------+-------+--------+
   | 10.10.10.2 | 4.0.0.0 | 2881 | zone1 | ACTIVE |
   | 10.10.10.3 | 4.0.0.0 | 2881 | zone2 | ACTIVE |
   | 10.10.10.4 | 4.0.0.0 | 2881 | zone3 | ACTIVE |
   +------------+---------+------+-------+--------+
   obclient -h10.10.10.2 -P2881 -uroot -p****** -Doceanbase

   Connect to obproxy ok
   +----------------------------------------------+
   |                 obproxy                      |
   +------------+------+-----------------+--------+
   | ip         | port | prometheus_port | status |
   +------------+------+-----------------+--------+
   | 10.10.10.1 | 2883 | 2884            | active |
   +------------+------+-----------------+--------+
   obclient -h10.10.10.1 -P2883 -uroot -p****** -Doceanbase
   ```

   The `obproxy` information is returned. `2883` in the port column indicates that Port 2883 provides the SQL service. This port is required in the JDBC URL.

2. After you confirm the status by using the `obd cluster display` command, you can use a terminal to log on to the server that hosts the obproxy process and run the `ps -ef | grep obproxy` command to view the process information.

   ```bash
   [admin@test ~]# ps -ef | grep obproxy | grep -v grep
   admin     6868     1  0 Nov12 ?        00:02:09 bash /home/admin/obproxy/obproxyd.sh /home/admin/obproxy 10.10.10.1 2883 daemon
   admin     6901     1  0 Nov12 ?        00:44:11 /home/admin/obproxy/bin/obproxy --listen_port 2883
   ```

   You can find the `obproxyd.sh` and `obproxy` processes in the return information of the preceding example. `obproxy` is the name of the ODP process, and `obproxyd.sh` is the daemon script of ODP. The `obproxyd.sh` process is responsible for starting the obproxy process and performs health check on the obproxy process. If the obproxy process does not exist, obproxyd.sh will actively pull up the process.

## Common issues in deployment

### Startup failed

In a Linux system, ODP uses the `enable_strict_kernel_release` parameter to control the verification of the operating system version. If the operating system fails the check, the startup fails. The key logs are as follows:

```bash
[2021-10-13 10:38:17.235062] WARN [PROXY] get_kernel_release_by_uname (ob_config_server_processor.cpp:1039) [2060][Y0-0] [lt=14] [dc=0] unknown uname release(uinfo.release="4.18.0-80.el8.x86_64", ret=-4016)
```

You can run the `uname` command to view kernel information. This option supports only the EL series and AliOS series. The check strategies are conservative, and false errors may be reported. If you encounter the preceding issue in other Linux systems, you can disable the parameter to solve the problem.

### Failed to connect to OceanBase Database

ODP establishes a connection with OceanBase Database by using the proxyro user. If the proxyro user does not exist or the password of the proxyro user is inconsistent with the value of the `observer_sys_password` parameter of ODP, ODP fails to connect to OceanBase Database, and the following error is reported:

```bash
ERROR 2013 (HY000): Lost connection to MySQL server at 'reading authorization packet', system error: 11
```

In this case, choose a solution according to your situation:

1. The proxyro user does not exist.

   Use the `root@sys` user to access OceanBase Database directly, and create the proxyro user in the sys tenant.

   ```sql
   create user proxyro identified by '*******';
   grant select on *.* to proxyro;
   ```

2. The password of the proxyro user is inconsistent with the value of the `observer_sys_password` parameter of ODP.

   1. You can use the `root@sys` user to access OceanBase Database directly and change the password of the proxyro user to make it consistent with the value of the `observer_sys_password` parameter that you set during ODP startup.

      ```bash
      ALTER USER proxyro IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
      ```

   2. You can also log on to ODP with the `root@proxysys` account and change the password of `proxyro@sys`. After the change, restart the ODP.

      ```sql
      alter proxyconfig set observer_sys_password = 'password';
      ```

> **Notice**
>
> Enter the original value of the password rather than the SHA1-hashed value for `password` in the preceding statement.
